---
layout: post
title: FLIMfit v4.11.0
---

We are pleased to announce the release of version 4.11.0 of the open-source Fluorescence Lifetime fitting and visualisation tool FLIMfit. [Download version 4.11.0 here](http://downloads.openmicroscopy.org/flimfit/4.11.0/)

Updates/Improvements
--------------------
* Compatible with version 5.2 of OMERO.
* OMERO interface improved to simplify the handling of attached non­image files.
* Improved error handling and reporting.
* Added ability to resample FIFO data spatially/temporally at load time. 
* Added prompt when a new version is available.
* Improved handling of tiff/ome­tiff files. (uses Bio­Formats for greater reliability)
* Added an “Exit” option to the “File” menu.

Bug Fixes
---------
* Fix problems loading single pixel, multichannel Becker­Hickl .sdt files (now using BioFormats 5.1.9)
* Fix errors loading Picoquant .bin files introduced in version 5.10.3.
* Prevent attempts to load combinations of multiple multidimensional files that FLIMfit is currently unable to handle. 

Known Issues
------------
Users of LaVision BioTec’s Imspector software please note: The Bio­Formats library, which FLIMfit uses, supports version 4.0 of this software. It appears that recent changes to LaVision Imspector mean that FLIM files from version 5.0 are not always correctly interpreted by the current Bio­Formats reader.
The OME team have open tickets to add support for newer versions of this format.

In the meantime our suggested work­around is to use the capability of this software to generate ome­tiffs. However, there is an issue here:
FLIMfit supports OME­TIFF files which use the Modulo annotation introduced as a standard in the 2011 version of the OME model to store the FLIM time dimension.

The OME­TIFF files from the Imspector system, unfortunately, use an older version of this standard and cannot, therefore be identified via Bio­Formats as FLIM data.
A patch has been added to FLIMfit to attempt to handle these files but please treat with caution. 
